Add zenodo ref, add text, and write replies. (#59)
the-teachingRSE-project/end_of_RSEng: correspondence/rebuttal-1.md

### Suggestions

> As suggested also by other referees, we made the workshop notes available at zenodo. A link has been made part of the paper.
> 

Reviewer: I don't think this sentence needs to be repeated here, especially not as the first one in the section.

```suggestion
```

> 3. The authors claim to "present here the results of a workshop discussion at the deRSE25 conference in Karlsruhe". However, they also include their hopes, discussions and own expectations for the future RSE ecosystem (in Germany). This should be mentioned in the introduction and it should be made clear which statements have been put forward during the discussion and which have been added by the authors after the discussion. The authors mention this construct in section 3 ("In the previous sections, we have tried to list some of the trends that we foresee. The material presented here is based on the outputs of a workshop, but extended with the authors’ ideas."), which makes understanding the paper difficult; I would expect such a statement at the beginning. While I do not propose to re-structure the paper (e.g. report first, discussion second), I suggest to review the paper as to which statements have been reported in the discussion and which statement have been brought up by the authors.

> We have put this sentence to the front, an kept it at the end as a reminder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have put this sentence to the front, and kept it at the end as a reminder.
```

> If possible, the inclusion of a small table, figure, and/or a few lines of text summarising the distribution of key features of the workshop participants might be an interesting addition (e.g. level of academic/research education, an indication of their software engineering proficiency/professionalism, their age and/or career stage)... I would be curious as to the level of 'optimism' and expectations for change for the field that participants with different backgrounds might tend to have, although I feel that your paper has merit and interest as it stands, with no such changes needed.

> Thank you for your suggestion. We made the workshop notes available at zenodo and included the link into the paper. We definitely agree, that more statisitics about the participants would be valuable, but we didn't measure them....
> We added a respective statement to the introduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you for your suggestion. We made the workshop notes available on Zenodo and included the link into the paper. We definitely agree that more statisitics about the participants would be valuable, but we did not collect any such data. We also added a respective statement to the introduction.
```
